.\" 
.\" $Id: pattern.3,v 1.1 2000/07/27 16:59:03 alaffin Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it would be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" 
.\" Further, this software is distributed without any warranty that it is
.\" free of the rightful claim of any third person regarding infringement
.\" or the like.  Any license provided herein, whether implied or
.\" otherwise, applies only to this software file.  Patent licenses, if
.\" any, provided herein do not apply to combinations of this program with
.\" other software, or any other product whatsoever.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
.\" Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\" 
.\" Contact information: Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy,
.\" Mountain View, CA  94043, or:
.\" 
.\" http://www.sgi.com 
.\" 
.\" For further information regarding this notice, see: 
.\" 
.\" http://oss.sgi.com/projects/GenInfo/NoticeExplan/
.\"
.TH PATTERN 3 07/25/2000 "Linux Test Project"
.SH NAME
pattern_fill \- Fill a buffer with copies of a pattern
.br
pattern_check \- Validate a buffer against copies of a pattern
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpattern_fill\fP(char *\fIbuf\fP, int \fIbuflen\fP, char *\fIpat\fP, int \fIpatlen\fP, int \fIpatshift\fP)
.br
\fBpattern_check\fP(char *\fIbuf\fP, int \fIbuflen\fP, char *\fIpat\fP, int \fIpatlen\fP, int \fIpatshift\fP)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpattern_fill()\fP fills a buffer of length \fIbuflen\fP with repeated
occurrences of a pattern whose length is \fIpatlen\fP.
If \fIbuflen\fP is not a multiple of \fIpatlen\fP, a partial pattern will
be written in the last part of the buffer.  This implies that a buffer which is
shorter than the pattern length will receive only a partial pattern.

\fBpattern_check()\fP verifies that \fIbuf\fP contains repeated occurrences
of the indicated pattern.

The \fIpatshift\fP argument to \fBpattern_fill()\fP and \fBpattern_shift()\fP
specify that \fIpat\fP should be rotated (\fIpatshift\fP % \fIpatlen\fP) bytes
to the left before filling or comparing the buffer.  Since the pattern is
rotated by (\fIpatshift\fP % \fIpatlen\fP), \fIpatshift\fP may be greater than
\fIpathlen\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBpattern_fill(buf, sizeof(buf), "abcde", 5, 0)\fR
.br
.RS 8

fill buf with repeated occurrences of "abcde"

.RE
.br
\fBpattern_check(buf, sizeof(buf), "abcde", 5, 0)\fR
.br
.RS 8

verify that buf consists of repeated occurrences of "abcde"

.RE
.br
\fBpattern_fill(buf, sizeof(buf), "abcde", 5, 3)\fR 
.br 
.RS 8 
 
fill buf with repeated occurrences of "deabc"
 
.RE

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBpattern_fill()\fP always returns 0 - no validation of arguments is done.
.br
\fBpattern_check()\fP returns -1 if the buffer does not contain repeated
occurrences of the indicated pattern (rotated \fIpatshift\fB bytes) or 0
otherwise.
.SH BUGS
None known.
