doc/index.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

.. include:: ../README.rst

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:
   :caption: For users

   users/quick_start
   users/setup_tests
   users/testers_guide
   users/supported_systems
   users/stats
   users/test_catalog

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:
   :caption: For developers

   developers/setup_mailinglist
   developers/writing_tests
   developers/test_case_tutorial
   developers/api_c_tests
   developers/api_shell_tests
   developers/api_network_tests
   developers/api_kvm_tests
   developers/ltp_library
   developers/build_system
   developers/debugging
   developers/documentation

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:
   :caption: For maintainers

   maintainers/patch_review
   maintainers/ltp_release_procedure

For users
---------

.. descriptions here are active

:doc:`users/quick_start`
   How to build and use LTP framework in few steps

:doc:`users/setup_tests`
   How to setup tests execution

:doc:`users/supported_systems`
   A list of supported technologies by the LTP framework

:doc:`users/stats`
   Some LTP statistics

:doc:`users/test_catalog`
   The LTP test catalog

For developers
--------------

.. descriptions here are active

:doc:`developers/setup_mailinglist`
   How to configure git and to start sending patches via :git_man:`send-email`.

:doc:`developers/writing_tests`
   Starting guide on writing tests

:doc:`developers/test_case_tutorial`
   A tutorial showing how to write a test from scratch using C API

:doc:`developers/api_c_tests`
   Walk through the C API features

:doc:`developers/api_shell_tests`
   Walk through the Shell API features

:doc:`developers/api_network_tests`
   Walk through the network API features

:doc:`developers/api_kvm_tests`
   Walk through the KVM API features

:doc:`developers/ltp_library`
   Developing new features in the LTP library

:doc:`developers/build_system`
   Short introduction to the LTP build system

:doc:`developers/debugging`
   How to debug LTP tests

:doc:`developers/documentation`
   How to use and develop LTP documentation

For maintainers
---------------

:doc:`maintainers/patch_review`
   Steps to follow when reviewing patches

:doc:`maintainers/ltp_release_procedure`
   Steps to follow for a new LTP release


Getting help
------------
To report a problem or suggest any feature, please write at ltp@lists.linux.it

Commit message:

Remove TODO
TODO file is not updated and it talks about goals we already reached via
new LTP documentation. In general, it contains generic and random topics
which none is updating anymore, so it's better to remove it in order to
create less confusion for newcomers.

Instead, we create a todo list in the new documentation, providing a
more clear intention of what are the current LTP goals.

Reviewed-by: Li Wang <liwang@redhat.com>
Reviewed-by: Petr Vorel <pvorel@suse.cz>
Signed-off-by: Andrea Cervesato <andrea.cervesato@suse.com>

doc/index.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

.. include:: ../README.rst

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:
   :caption: For users

   users/quick_start
   users/setup_tests
   users/testers_guide
   users/supported_systems
   users/stats
   users/test_catalog

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:
   :caption: For developers

   developers/setup_mailinglist
   developers/writing_tests
   developers/test_case_tutorial
   developers/api_c_tests
   developers/api_shell_tests
   developers/api_network_tests
   developers/api_kvm_tests
   developers/ltp_library
   developers/build_system
   developers/debugging
   developers/documentation
   developers/todo

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:
   :caption: For maintainers

   maintainers/patch_review
   maintainers/ltp_release_procedure

For users
---------

.. descriptions here are active

:doc:`users/quick_start`
   How to build and use LTP framework in few steps

:doc:`users/setup_tests`
   How to setup tests execution

:doc:`users/supported_systems`
   A list of supported technologies by the LTP framework

:doc:`users/stats`
   Some LTP statistics

:doc:`users/test_catalog`
   The LTP test catalog

For developers
--------------

.. descriptions here are active

:doc:`developers/setup_mailinglist`
   How to configure git and to start sending patches via :git_man:`send-email`.

:doc:`developers/writing_tests`
   Starting guide on writing tests

:doc:`developers/test_case_tutorial`
   A tutorial showing how to write a test from scratch using C API

:doc:`developers/api_c_tests`
   Walk through the C API features

:doc:`developers/api_shell_tests`
   Walk through the Shell API features

:doc:`developers/api_network_tests`
   Walk through the network API features

:doc:`developers/api_kvm_tests`
   Walk through the KVM API features

:doc:`developers/ltp_library`
   Developing new features in the LTP library

:doc:`developers/build_system`
   Short introduction to the LTP build system

:doc:`developers/debugging`
   How to debug LTP tests

:doc:`developers/documentation`
   How to use and develop LTP documentation

:doc:`developers/todo`
   List of tasks maintainers are working on

For maintainers
---------------

:doc:`maintainers/patch_review`
   Steps to follow when reviewing patches

:doc:`maintainers/ltp_release_procedure`
   Steps to follow for a new LTP release


Getting help
------------
To report a problem or suggest any feature, please write at ltp@lists.linux.it
