doc/developers/documentation.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

Documentation
=============

This section explains how to use and develop the LTP documentation. The current
documentation format is written using
`reStructedText <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/index.html>`_
and it's built on top of `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/>`_.

Building documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before building, make sure you have python3 ``virtualenv`` module installed.

.. code-block:: bash

    # run configure to be able to compile doc dependencies in metadata/
    make autotools
    ./configure
    cd doc

    # prepare virtual environment
    python3 -m virtualenv .venv
    . .venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    # build documentation
    make

Once the procedure has been completed, documentation will be visible at
``doc/html/index.html``.

.. warning::

    The current :master:`.readthedocs.yml` workflow is using ``Python 3.6`` because
    older Python versions were causing issues. No other version has been tested,
    but it should work anyway.

Validating spelling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To check documentation words spelling, we provide support for
`aspell <http://aspell.net/>`_, so make sure that it's installed. The
documentation can be tested via ``make spelling`` command. Output will be
visible in the ``doc/build`` folder and, if any error will be found, a warning
message will be shown.

C API documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The C API documentation is generated from headers using
`kernel-doc <https://return42.github.io/linuxdoc/linuxdoc-howto/kernel-doc-syntax.html>`_
syntax which is supported by Sphinx via
`linuxdoc <https://pypi.org/project/linuxdoc/>`_ extension.

Commit message:

sphinx: Update to 7.2.6, python 3.12, ubuntu-24.04
Update sphinx to 7.2.6, python 3.12. This requires to update
.readthedocs.yml to use ubuntu-24.04 [1], because keep in sync sphinx in
readthedocs with with the one for local development and github CI.
Raising python makes sense, as development is usually done on newer
distros, we were still using old python 3.6.

This fixes the problem on local development trying to run older sphinx
5.3 on python 3.13 requires to use imghdr, which was removed from
standard library (alternatively we'd need to install it from pip via
adding standard-imghdr into requirements.txt).

[1] https://about.readthedocs.com/blog/2024/06/ubuntu-24-04/

Link: https://lore.kernel.org/ltp/20250408114432.220841-1-pvorel@suse.cz/
Fixes: b900b790e9 ("doc: Add sphinx to requirements.txt")
Tested-by: Ricardo B. Marlière <rbm@suse.com>
Reviewed-by: Ricardo B. Marlière <rbm@suse.com>
Acked-by: Andrea Cervesato <andrea.cervesato@suse.com>
Signed-off-by: Petr Vorel <pvorel@suse.cz>

doc/developers/documentation.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

Documentation
=============

This section explains how to use and develop the LTP documentation. The current
documentation format is written using
`reStructedText <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/index.html>`_
and it's built on top of `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/>`_.

Building documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before building, make sure you have python3 ``virtualenv`` module installed.

.. code-block:: bash

    # run configure to be able to compile doc dependencies in metadata/
    make autotools
    ./configure
    cd doc

    # prepare virtual environment
    python3 -m virtualenv .venv
    . .venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    # build documentation
    make

Once the procedure has been completed, documentation will be visible at
``doc/html/index.html``.

.. warning::

    Documentation requires ``Python >= 3.6``.
    The current :master:`.readthedocs.yml` workflow is using ``Python 3.12``,
    it is tested in GitHub Actions :master:`.github/workflows/ci-sphinx-doc.yml`.

Validating spelling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To check documentation words spelling, we provide support for
`aspell <http://aspell.net/>`_, so make sure that it's installed. The
documentation can be tested via ``make spelling`` command. Output will be
visible in the ``doc/build`` folder and, if any error will be found, a warning
message will be shown.

C API documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The C API documentation is generated from headers using
`kernel-doc <https://return42.github.io/linuxdoc/linuxdoc-howto/kernel-doc-syntax.html>`_
syntax which is supported by Sphinx via
`linuxdoc <https://pypi.org/project/linuxdoc/>`_ extension.
