doc/developers/ltp_library.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

LTP Library guidelines
======================

General Rules
-------------

When we extend library API, we need to apply the same general rules that we use
when writing tests, plus:

#. LTP library tests must go inside :master:`lib/newlib_tests` directory
#. LTP documentation has to be updated according to API changes

Shell API
---------

API source code is in :master:`testcases/lib/tst_test.sh`,
:master:`testcases/lib/tst_security.sh` and :master:`testcases/lib/tst_net.sh`.

Changes in the shell API should not introduce uncommon dependencies
(use basic commands installed everywhere by default).

Shell libraries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Aside from shell API libraries in :master:`testcases/lib` directory, it's
worth putting common code for a group of tests into a shell library.
The filename should end with ``_lib.sh`` and the library should load
``tst_test.sh`` or ``tst_net.sh``.

Shell libraries should have conditional expansion for ``TST_SETUP`` or
``TST_CLEANUP``, to avoid surprises when test specific setup/cleanup function is
redefined by shell library.

.. code-block:: bash

    # ipsec_lib.sh
    # SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
    TST_SETUP="${TST_SETUP:-ipsec_lib_setup}"
    ...
    . tst_test.sh

Commit message:

doc: Link API pages, rename title
Rename pages to be able to use them in links via :doc:.

We loose code formatting when linking code with :ref: struct tst_test,
but IMHO having a link is more important (usability).

Using :ref: requires to enable sphinx.ext.autosectionlabel plugin.

Link: https://lore.kernel.org/ltp/20240607141131.111470-2-pvorel@suse.cz/
Reviewed-by: Andrea Cervesato <andrea.cervesato@suse.com>
Signed-off-by: Petr Vorel <pvorel@suse.cz>

doc/developers/ltp_library.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later

LTP Library guidelines
======================

General Rules
-------------

For extending the LTP library API it applies the same general rules as
for :doc:`writing tests <../developers/writing_tests>`
(with strong focus on readability and simplicity), plus:

#. LTP library tests must go inside :master:`lib/newlib_tests` directory
#. LTP documentation has to be updated according to API changes

Shell API
---------

API source code is in :master:`testcases/lib/tst_test.sh`,
:master:`testcases/lib/tst_security.sh` and :master:`testcases/lib/tst_net.sh`.

Changes in the shell API should not introduce uncommon dependencies
(use basic commands installed everywhere by default).

Shell libraries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Aside from shell API libraries in :master:`testcases/lib` directory, it's
worth putting common code for a group of tests into a shell library.
The filename should end with ``_lib.sh`` and the library should load
``tst_test.sh`` or ``tst_net.sh``.

Shell libraries should have conditional expansion for ``TST_SETUP`` or
``TST_CLEANUP``, to avoid surprises when test specific setup/cleanup function is
redefined by shell library.

.. code-block:: bash

    # ipsec_lib.sh
    # SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
    TST_SETUP="${TST_SETUP:-ipsec_lib_setup}"
    ...
    . tst_test.sh
