testcases/kernel/security/integrity/ima/README.md, before:

# IMA + EVM testing

## IMA tests

Mandatory kernel configuration for IMA:
```
CONFIG_INTEGRITY=y
CONFIG_IMA=y
```

### IMA measurement tests
`ima_measurements.sh` require builtin IMA tcb policy to be loaded
(`ima_policy=tcb` kernel parameter).
Although a custom policy, loaded via dracut, systemd or manually from user
space, may contain equivalent measurement tcb rules, detecting them would
require `IMA_READ_POLICY=y` therefore ignore this option.

### IMA key test
The measuring keys test (first test) in `ima_keys.sh` requires a readable IMA
policy, as well as a loaded measure policy with `func=KEY_CHECK keyrings=...`.

The certificate import test (second test) requires measure policy with
`func=KEY_CHECK keyrings=key_import_test`.

For example of valid policy for both tests on all supported kernels see `keycheck.policy`.

If the IMA key tests are executed on kernel v5.6 through v5.10,
`ima-buf` template should be specified in the IMA policy rule for
key measurement, e.g.:
```
measure func=KEY_CHECK keyrings=key_import_test template=ima-buf
```

Executing on kernel v5.11 or later, `template=ima-buf` is optional in the IMA
policy rule for key measurement, e.g.:
```
measure func=KEY_CHECK keyrings=key_import_test
```

As well as what's required for the IMA tests, key tests require reading the IMA
policy allowed in the kernel configuration:
```
CONFIG_IMA_READ_POLICY=y
```

### IMA kexec test

`ima_kexec.sh` requires loaded policy which contains `measure func=KEXEC_CMDLINE`,
see example in `kexec.policy`.

The test attempts to kexec the existing running kernel image.
To kexec a different kernel image export `IMA_KEXEC_IMAGE=<pathname>`.

### IMA SELinux test

To enable IMA to measure SELinux state and policy, `ima_selinux.sh`
requires a readable IMA policy, as well as a loaded measure policy with
`measure func=CRITICAL_DATA label=selinux`,
see example in `selinux.policy`.

As well as what's required for the IMA tests, SELinux tests require SELinux enabled
and reading the IMA policy allowed in the kernel configuration:
```
CONFIG_SECURITY_SELINUX=y
CONFIG_IMA_READ_POLICY=y
```

## EVM tests

`evm_overlay.sh` requires a builtin IMA appraise tcb policy (e.g. `ima_policy=appraise_tcb`
kernel parameter) which appraises the integrity of all files owned by root and EVM setup.
Again, for simplicity ignore possibility to load requires rules via custom policy.

Mandatory kernel configuration for EVM tests:
```
CONFIG_INTEGRITY=y
CONFIG_INTEGRITY_SIGNATURE=y
CONFIG_IMA=y
CONFIG_IMA_APPRAISE=y
CONFIG_EVM=y
CONFIG_KEYS=y
CONFIG_TRUSTED_KEYS=y
CONFIG_ENCRYPTED_KEYS=y
```

Example of preparing environment on for EVM on openSUSE:

* Boot install system with `ima_policy=tcb|appraise_tcb ima_appraise=fix evm=fix` kernel parameters
  (for IMA measurement, IMA appraisal and EVM protection)
* Proceed with installation until summary screen, but do not start the installation yet
* Select package `dracut-ima` (required for early boot EVM support) for installation
  (Debian based distros already contain IMA + EVM support in `dracut` package)
* Change to a console window and run commands to generate keys required by EVM:
```
# mkdir /etc/keys
# user_key=$(keyctl add user kmk-user "`dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1 count=32 2>/dev/null`" @u)
# keyctl pipe "$user_key" > /etc/keys/kmk-user.blob
# evm_key=$(keyctl add encrypted evm-key "new user:kmk-user 64" @u)
# keyctl pipe "$evm_key" >/etc/keys/evm.blob
# cat <<END >/etc/sysconfig/masterkey
MASTERKEYTYPE="user"
MASTERKEY="/etc/keys/kmk-user.blob"
END
# cat <<END >/etc/sysconfig/evm
EVMKEY="/etc/keys/evm.blob"
END
# mount -t securityfs security /sys/kernel/security
# echo 1 >/sys/kernel/security/evm
```

* Go back to the installation summary screen and start the installation
* During the installation execute the following commands from the console:
```
# cp -r /etc/keys /mnt/etc/ # Debian based distributions: use /target instead of /mnt
# cp /etc/sysconfig/{evm,masterkey} /mnt/etc/sysconfig/
```

This should work on any distribution using dracut.
Loading EVM keys is also possible with initramfs-tools (Debian based distributions).

Of course it's possible to install OS usual way, add keys later and fix missing xattrs with:
```
evmctl -r ima_fix /
```

or with `find` if evmctl is not available:
```
find / \( -fstype rootfs -o -fstype ext4 -o -fstype btrfs -o -fstype xfs \) -exec sh -c "< '{}'" \;
```
Again, fixing requires `ima_policy=tcb|appraise_tcb ima_appraise=fix evm=fix` kernel parameters.

Commit message:

ima_setup.sh: Allow to load predefined policy
environment variable LTP_IMA_LOAD_POLICY=1 tries to load example policy
if available. This should be used only if tooling running LTP tests
allows to reboot afterwards because policy may be writable only once,
e.g. missing CONFIG_IMA_WRITE_POLICY=y, or policies can influence each
other.

Loading may fail due various reasons (e.g. previously mentioned missing
CONFIG_IMA_WRITE_POLICY=y and policy already loaded or when secure boot is
enabled and the kernel is configured with CONFIG_IMA_ARCH_POLICY enabled, an
appraise func=POLICY_CHECK appraise_type=imasig rule is loaded, requiring the
IMA policy itself to be signed).

Link: https://lore.kernel.org/ltp/20250114112915.610297-9-pvorel@suse.cz/
Reviewed-by: Mimi Zohar <zohar@linux.ibm.com>
Signed-off-by: Petr Vorel <pvorel@suse.cz>

testcases/kernel/security/integrity/ima/README.md, after:

# IMA + EVM testing

## IMA tests

Mandatory kernel configuration for IMA:
```
CONFIG_INTEGRITY=y
CONFIG_IMA=y
```

### Loading policy for testing (optional)
Setting environment variable `LTP_IMA_LOAD_POLICY=1` tries to load example
policy if available. This should be used only if tooling running LTP tests
allows to reboot afterwards because policy may be writable only once, e.g.
missing `CONFIG_IMA_WRITE_POLICY=y`, or policies can influence each other.

Loading may fail due various reasons (e.g. previously mentioned missing
`CONFIG_IMA_WRITE_POLICY=y` and policy already loaded or when secure boot is
enabled and the kernel is configured with `CONFIG_IMA_ARCH_POLICY` enabled, an
`appraise func=POLICY_CHECK appraise_type=imasig` rule is loaded, requiring the
IMA policy itself to be signed).

### IMA measurement tests
`ima_measurements.sh` require builtin IMA tcb policy to be loaded
(`ima_policy=tcb` kernel parameter).
Although a custom policy, loaded via dracut, systemd or manually from user
space, may contain equivalent measurement tcb rules, detecting them would
require `IMA_READ_POLICY=y` therefore ignore this option.

### IMA key test
The measuring keys test (first test) in `ima_keys.sh` requires a readable IMA
policy, as well as a loaded measure policy with `func=KEY_CHECK keyrings=...`.

The certificate import test (second test) requires measure policy with
`func=KEY_CHECK keyrings=key_import_test`.

For example of valid policy for both tests on all supported kernels see `keycheck.policy`.

If the IMA key tests are executed on kernel v5.6 through v5.10,
`ima-buf` template should be specified in the IMA policy rule for
key measurement, e.g.:
```
measure func=KEY_CHECK keyrings=key_import_test template=ima-buf
```

Executing on kernel v5.11 or later, `template=ima-buf` is optional in the IMA
policy rule for key measurement, e.g.:
```
measure func=KEY_CHECK keyrings=key_import_test
```

As well as what's required for the IMA tests, key tests require reading the IMA
policy allowed in the kernel configuration:
```
CONFIG_IMA_READ_POLICY=y
```

### IMA kexec test

`ima_kexec.sh` requires loaded policy which contains `measure func=KEXEC_CMDLINE`,
see example in `kexec.policy`.

The test attempts to kexec the existing running kernel image.
To kexec a different kernel image export `IMA_KEXEC_IMAGE=<pathname>`.

### IMA SELinux test

To enable IMA to measure SELinux state and policy, `ima_selinux.sh`
requires a readable IMA policy, as well as a loaded measure policy with
`measure func=CRITICAL_DATA label=selinux`,
see example in `selinux.policy`.

As well as what's required for the IMA tests, SELinux tests require SELinux enabled
and reading the IMA policy allowed in the kernel configuration:
```
CONFIG_SECURITY_SELINUX=y
CONFIG_IMA_READ_POLICY=y
```

## EVM tests

`evm_overlay.sh` requires a builtin IMA appraise tcb policy (e.g. `ima_policy=appraise_tcb`
kernel parameter) which appraises the integrity of all files owned by root and EVM setup.
Again, for simplicity ignore possibility to load requires rules via custom policy.

Mandatory kernel configuration for EVM tests:
```
CONFIG_INTEGRITY=y
CONFIG_INTEGRITY_SIGNATURE=y
CONFIG_IMA=y
CONFIG_IMA_APPRAISE=y
CONFIG_EVM=y
CONFIG_KEYS=y
CONFIG_TRUSTED_KEYS=y
CONFIG_ENCRYPTED_KEYS=y
```

Example of preparing environment on for EVM on openSUSE:

* Boot install system with `ima_policy=tcb|appraise_tcb ima_appraise=fix evm=fix` kernel parameters
  (for IMA measurement, IMA appraisal and EVM protection)
* Proceed with installation until summary screen, but do not start the installation yet
* Select package `dracut-ima` (required for early boot EVM support) for installation
  (Debian based distros already contain IMA + EVM support in `dracut` package)
* Change to a console window and run commands to generate keys required by EVM:
```
# mkdir /etc/keys
# user_key=$(keyctl add user kmk-user "`dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1 count=32 2>/dev/null`" @u)
# keyctl pipe "$user_key" > /etc/keys/kmk-user.blob
# evm_key=$(keyctl add encrypted evm-key "new user:kmk-user 64" @u)
# keyctl pipe "$evm_key" >/etc/keys/evm.blob
# cat <<END >/etc/sysconfig/masterkey
MASTERKEYTYPE="user"
MASTERKEY="/etc/keys/kmk-user.blob"
END
# cat <<END >/etc/sysconfig/evm
EVMKEY="/etc/keys/evm.blob"
END
# mount -t securityfs security /sys/kernel/security
# echo 1 >/sys/kernel/security/evm
```

* Go back to the installation summary screen and start the installation
* During the installation execute the following commands from the console:
```
# cp -r /etc/keys /mnt/etc/ # Debian based distributions: use /target instead of /mnt
# cp /etc/sysconfig/{evm,masterkey} /mnt/etc/sysconfig/
```

This should work on any distribution using dracut.
Loading EVM keys is also possible with initramfs-tools (Debian based distributions).

Of course it's possible to install OS usual way, add keys later and fix missing xattrs with:
```
evmctl -r ima_fix /
```

or with `find` if evmctl is not available:
```
find / \( -fstype rootfs -o -fstype ext4 -o -fstype btrfs -o -fstype xfs \) -exec sh -c "< '{}'" \;
```
Again, fixing requires `ima_policy=tcb|appraise_tcb ima_appraise=fix evm=fix` kernel parameters.
